# CS-250-Repository

For the SNHU Travel project, I occupied several roles across multiple Scrum roles including Product Owner, Developer, and Scrum Master, toward the goal of producing a user-centric travel booking web application while using Agile-Scrum processes. The project solidified my understanding of how to identify user needs, and realize the needs into working software, based on ongoing inputs, through Agile-Scrum iterations. One essential tool for accomplishing this task, was the use of user stories which transformed abstract requirements into actual working software and code, by creating manageable work tasks for the development team and organizing them with respect to delivery via sprints. For instance, when a key stakeholder wanted functionality to filter vacation packages to show only vacation packages meeting a price requirement, the development team created a user story and broke out the identified requirements between frontend development, backend development, and testing specifications. The user story helped maintain traceability from the stakeholder need to the delivery of the new feature.

I now tend to emphasize iterative delivery and responsiveness to changes when developing software. There are many facets to developing software, and agile processes (for example, sprint planning, daily standups, and retrospectives) helped our team to keep on improving at the software delivery process. I fully intend to integrate these types of practices in my future work in software development, to improve communication, minimize rework and help establish development momentum. In addition to practices that help improve communication and reduce rework, agile processes helped me when our client changed their emphasis halfway through the project, switching from a desktop-first design to a mobile-first approach. Scrum has feedback loops built in, and emphasizes delivering value on each iteration, so changing the feature firmly tied to the hardware type (desktop or mobile) was pretty easy for the team to execute.


Being a good team member in software development is more than simply writing code that works and is not-wholly gross. It also involves maintaining active communication, a willingness to adapt to circumstances, and maintaining team morale. As the Scrum Master, I ensured meetings were facilitated, the team removed blockers to tasks, and team members felt encouraged to discuss openly (e.g., in a retrospective). After one incident in one of the retrospectives, where a misunderstanding regarding testing caused a lot of duplicate work, I wrote an agenda and coordinated a team meeting to align our processes. This not only ensured collaboration, but it lead to increased quality ultimately by reducing errors.


In the end, this project reaffirmed how agile development is capable of enabling responsive, user-centered software delivery. It also framed the need for cultivating strong team culture, rooted in transparency and accountability, as a basis for any successful software effort.
